www/contents/components/(components)/color-swatch.mdx, before:

---
title: ColorSwatch
description: "`ColorSwatch` is a component that displays color samples."
storybook: components-colorswatch--basic
source: components/color-swatch
style: components/color-swatch/color-swatch.style.ts
---

```tsx preview
<ColorSwatch color="#186bf2" />
```

## Usage

:::code-group

```tsx [package]
import { ColorSwatch } from "@yamada-ui/react"
```

```tsx [alias]
import { ColorSwatch } from "@/components/ui"
```

```tsx [monorepo]
import { ColorSwatch } from "@workspaces/ui"
```

:::

```tsx
<ColorSwatch />
```

### Change Variant

```tsx preview
<Wrap gap="md">
  <For each={["plain", "circle", "square"]}>
    {(variant, index) => (
      <ColorSwatch color="#186bf2" variant={variant} key={index} />
    )}
  </For>
</Wrap>
```

### Change Size

```tsx preview
<Wrap gap="md" alignItems="center">
  <For each={["2xs", "xs", "sm", "md", "lg", "xl", "2xl"]}>
    {(size, index) => <ColorSwatch color="#186bf2" size={size} key={index} />}
  </For>
</Wrap>
```

### Alpha

Example of color swatch using alpha channels.

```tsx preview
<VStack>
  <Wrap gap="md">
    {Object.entries(theme.colors.whiteAlpha).map(([key, color]) => (
      <ColorSwatch key={key} color={color} />
    ))}
  </Wrap>

  <Wrap gap="md">
    {Object.entries(theme.colors.blackAlpha).map(([key, color]) => (
      <ColorSwatch key={key} color={color} />
    ))}
  </Wrap>
</VStack>
```

### Disable Shadow

By default, a shadow is included inline to make the color easier to see. To disable the shadow, set `withShadow` to `false`.

```tsx preview
<ColorSwatch color="#186bf2" withShadow={false} />
```

### Group

To create color swatch containing multiple colors, use `ColorSwatchGroup`.

```tsx preview
<Wrap gap="md">
  <ColorSwatchGroup
    items={["green.500", "green.600", "green.700", "green.800"]}
  />
  <ColorSwatchGroup items={["red.500", "red.400", "red.300"]} />
  <ColorSwatchGroup items={[]} />
</Wrap>
```

## Props

<PropsTable name="color-swatch" />

## Accessibility

Currently, this section is being updated due to the migration of v2.

Commit message:

docs(color-swatch): update accessibility

www/contents/components/(components)/color-swatch.mdx, after:

---
title: ColorSwatch
description: "`ColorSwatch` is a component that displays color samples."
storybook: components-colorswatch--basic
source: components/color-swatch
style: components/color-swatch/color-swatch.style.ts
---

```tsx preview
<ColorSwatch color="#186bf2" />
```

## Usage

:::code-group

```tsx [package]
import { ColorSwatch } from "@yamada-ui/react"
```

```tsx [alias]
import { ColorSwatch } from "@/components/ui"
```

```tsx [monorepo]
import { ColorSwatch } from "@workspaces/ui"
```

:::

```tsx
<ColorSwatch />
```

### Change Variant

```tsx preview
<Wrap gap="md">
  <For each={["plain", "circle", "square"]}>
    {(variant, index) => (
      <ColorSwatch color="#186bf2" variant={variant} key={index} />
    )}
  </For>
</Wrap>
```

### Change Size

```tsx preview
<Wrap gap="md" alignItems="center">
  <For each={["2xs", "xs", "sm", "md", "lg", "xl", "2xl"]}>
    {(size, index) => <ColorSwatch color="#186bf2" size={size} key={index} />}
  </For>
</Wrap>
```

### Alpha

Example of color swatch using alpha channels.

```tsx preview
<VStack>
  <Wrap gap="md">
    {Object.entries(theme.colors.whiteAlpha).map(([key, color]) => (
      <ColorSwatch key={key} color={color} />
    ))}
  </Wrap>

  <Wrap gap="md">
    {Object.entries(theme.colors.blackAlpha).map(([key, color]) => (
      <ColorSwatch key={key} color={color} />
    ))}
  </Wrap>
</VStack>
```

### Disable Shadow

By default, a shadow is included inline to make the color easier to see. To disable the shadow, set `withShadow` to `false`.

```tsx preview
<ColorSwatch color="#186bf2" withShadow={false} />
```

### Group

To create color swatch containing multiple colors, use `ColorSwatchGroup`.

```tsx preview
<Wrap gap="md">
  <ColorSwatchGroup
    items={["green.500", "green.600", "green.700", "green.800"]}
  />
  <ColorSwatchGroup items={["red.500", "red.400", "red.300"]} />
  <ColorSwatchGroup items={[]} />
</Wrap>
```

## Props

<PropsTable name="color-swatch" />

## Accessibility

If you set `aria-label`, it will be read by screen readers.

```tsx
<ColorSwatch color="#4387f4" aria-label="Blue" />
```

### ARIA Roles and Attributes

| Component          | Roles and Attributes                  | Usage                            |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| `ColorSwatch`      | `role="img"`                          | Indicates that this is an image. |
|                    | `aria-roledescription="color swatch"` | Sets to `"color swatch"`.        |
|                    | `aria-label`                          | Sets to the `color` value.       |
| `ColorSwatchGroup` | `aria-label="color swatch group"`     | Sets to `"color swatch group"`.  |
