www/contents/components/(components)/file-button.mdx, before:

---
title: FileButton
description: "`FileButton` is a button component used for users to select files."
storybook: components-filebutton--basic
source: components/file-button
style: components/file-button/file-button.style.ts
---

```tsx preview
<Wrap gap="md">
  <FileButton>Upload</FileButton>

  <FileButton
    as={IconButton}
    aria-label="Upload file"
    icon={<PlusIcon fontSize="2xl" />}
  />
</Wrap>
```

## Usage

:::code-group

```tsx [package]
import { FileButton } from "@yamada-ui/react"
```

```tsx [alias]
import { FileButton } from "@/components/ui"
```

```tsx [monorepo]
import { FileButton } from "@workspaces/ui"
```

:::

```tsx
<FileButton />
```

### Change Variant

```tsx preview
<Wrap gap="md">
  <For each={["solid", "subtle", "surface", "outline", "ghost"]}>
    {(variant, index) => (
      <FileButton variant={variant} key={index}>
        {toTitleCase(variant)}
      </FileButton>
    )}
  </For>
</Wrap>
```

### Change Size

```tsx preview
<Wrap gap="md">
  <For each={["xs", "sm", "md", "lg", "xl"]}>
    {(size, index) => (
      <FileButton size={size} key={index} minW="24">
        {toTitleCase(size)}
      </FileButton>
    )}
  </For>
</Wrap>
```

### Change Color Scheme

```tsx preview
<Wrap gap="md">
  <For each={["success", "warning"]}>
    {(colorScheme, index) => (
      <FileButton colorScheme={colorScheme} key={index}>
        {toTitleCase(colorScheme)}
      </FileButton>
    )}
  </For>
</Wrap>
```

### Allow Multiple Selection

To allow multiple selection, set `multiple` to `true`.

```tsx preview
<FileButton multiple>Upload</FileButton>
```

### Specify File Extensions

To specify file extensions, set `accept` to a string(type).

```tsx preview
<FileButton accept="image/png,image/jpeg">Upload</FileButton>
```

### Disable

To disable, set `disabled` to `true`.

```tsx preview
<VStack>
  <FileButton disabled alignSelf="flex-start">
    Upload
  </FileButton>

  <Field.Root
    disabled
    helperMessage="Please select a file to upload."
    label="Upload file"
  >
    <FileButton justifySelf="flex-start">Upload</FileButton>
  </Field.Root>
</VStack>
```

### Read-Only

To make it read-only, set `readOnly` to `true`.

```tsx preview
<VStack>
  <FileButton readOnly alignSelf="flex-start">
    Upload
  </FileButton>

  <Field.Root
    readOnly
    helperMessage="Please select a file to upload."
    label="Upload file"
  >
    <FileButton justifySelf="flex-start">Upload</FileButton>
  </Field.Root>
</VStack>
```

### Invalid

To make the input invalid, set `invalid` to `true`.

```tsx preview
<VStack>
  <FileButton invalid alignSelf="flex-start">
    Upload
  </FileButton>

  <Field.Root
    invalid
    helperMessage="Please select a file to upload."
    label="Upload file"
  >
    <FileButton justifySelf="flex-start">Upload</FileButton>
  </Field.Root>
</VStack>
```

To change the border color, set `errorBorderColor` to a color.

```tsx preview
<FileButton invalid errorBorderColor="warning">
  Upload
</FileButton>
```

### Reset

To reset the value, set `resetRef` to `ref`. A callback function will be attached to the set `ref`, execute it.

```tsx preview functional client
const [files, onChange] = useState<File[] | undefined>(undefined)
const resetRef = useRef<() => void>(null)
const onReset = () => {
  onChange(undefined)
  resetRef.current?.()
}

return (
  <VStack>
    <Text>files: {files?.length ?? 0}</Text>

    <HStack>
      <FileButton multiple resetRef={resetRef} onChange={onChange}>
        Upload
      </FileButton>

      <Button onClick={onReset} variant="subtle">
        Reset
      </Button>
    </HStack>
  </VStack>
)
```

## Props

<PropsTable name="file-button" />

## Accessibility

Currently, this section is being updated due to the migration of v2.

Commit message:

docs(file-button): update accessibility

www/contents/components/(components)/file-button.mdx, after:

---
title: FileButton
description: "`FileButton` is a button component used for users to select files."
storybook: components-filebutton--basic
source: components/file-button
style: components/file-button/file-button.style.ts
---

```tsx preview
<Wrap gap="md">
  <FileButton>Upload</FileButton>

  <FileButton
    as={IconButton}
    aria-label="Upload file"
    icon={<PlusIcon fontSize="2xl" />}
  />
</Wrap>
```

## Usage

:::code-group

```tsx [package]
import { FileButton } from "@yamada-ui/react"
```

```tsx [alias]
import { FileButton } from "@/components/ui"
```

```tsx [monorepo]
import { FileButton } from "@workspaces/ui"
```

:::

```tsx
<FileButton />
```

### Change Variant

```tsx preview
<Wrap gap="md">
  <For each={["solid", "subtle", "surface", "outline", "ghost"]}>
    {(variant, index) => (
      <FileButton variant={variant} key={index}>
        {toTitleCase(variant)}
      </FileButton>
    )}
  </For>
</Wrap>
```

### Change Size

```tsx preview
<Wrap gap="md">
  <For each={["xs", "sm", "md", "lg", "xl"]}>
    {(size, index) => (
      <FileButton size={size} key={index} minW="24">
        {toTitleCase(size)}
      </FileButton>
    )}
  </For>
</Wrap>
```

### Change Color Scheme

```tsx preview
<Wrap gap="md">
  <For each={["success", "warning"]}>
    {(colorScheme, index) => (
      <FileButton colorScheme={colorScheme} key={index}>
        {toTitleCase(colorScheme)}
      </FileButton>
    )}
  </For>
</Wrap>
```

### Allow Multiple Selection

To allow multiple selection, set `multiple` to `true`.

```tsx preview
<FileButton multiple>Upload</FileButton>
```

### Specify File Extensions

To specify file extensions, set `accept` to a string(type).

```tsx preview
<FileButton accept="image/png,image/jpeg">Upload</FileButton>
```

### Disable

To disable, set `disabled` to `true`.

```tsx preview
<VStack>
  <FileButton disabled alignSelf="flex-start">
    Upload
  </FileButton>

  <Field.Root
    disabled
    helperMessage="Please select a file to upload."
    label="Upload file"
  >
    <FileButton justifySelf="flex-start">Upload</FileButton>
  </Field.Root>
</VStack>
```

### Read-Only

To make it read-only, set `readOnly` to `true`.

```tsx preview
<VStack>
  <FileButton readOnly alignSelf="flex-start">
    Upload
  </FileButton>

  <Field.Root
    readOnly
    helperMessage="Please select a file to upload."
    label="Upload file"
  >
    <FileButton justifySelf="flex-start">Upload</FileButton>
  </Field.Root>
</VStack>
```

### Invalid

To make the input invalid, set `invalid` to `true`.

```tsx preview
<VStack>
  <FileButton invalid alignSelf="flex-start">
    Upload
  </FileButton>

  <Field.Root
    invalid
    helperMessage="Please select a file to upload."
    label="Upload file"
  >
    <FileButton justifySelf="flex-start">Upload</FileButton>
  </Field.Root>
</VStack>
```

To change the border color, set `errorBorderColor` to a color.

```tsx preview
<FileButton invalid errorBorderColor="warning">
  Upload
</FileButton>
```

### Reset

To reset the value, set `resetRef` to `ref`. A callback function will be attached to the set `ref`, execute it.

```tsx preview functional client
const [files, onChange] = useState<File[] | undefined>(undefined)
const resetRef = useRef<() => void>(null)
const onReset = () => {
  onChange(undefined)
  resetRef.current?.()
}

return (
  <VStack>
    <Text>files: {files?.length ?? 0}</Text>

    <HStack>
      <FileButton multiple resetRef={resetRef} onChange={onChange}>
        Upload
      </FileButton>

      <Button onClick={onReset} variant="subtle">
        Reset
      </Button>
    </HStack>
  </VStack>
)
```

## Props

<PropsTable name="file-button" />

## Accessibility

The `FileButton` follows the [WAI-ARIA - Button Pattern](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/button/) for accessibility.

If you use only an icon for `FileButton`, set `aria-label` to `FileButton`.

```tsx
<FileButton
  as={IconButton}
  aria-label="Upload file"
  icon={<PlusIcon fontSize="2xl" />}
/>
```

### Keyboard Navigation

| Key              | Description            | State |
| ---------------- | ---------------------- | ----- |
| `Tab`            | Focuses on the button. | -     |
| `Enter`, `Space` | Opens the file dialog. | -     |

### ARIA Roles and Attributes

| Component    | Roles and Attributes | Usage                                                |
| ------------ | -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `FileButton` | `aria-disabled`      | Sets to `"true"` if `disabled` or `readOnly` is set. |
