www/contents/components/(components)/icon-button.mdx, before:

---
title: IconButton
description: "`IconButton` is a component that displays an icon within a button."
storybook: components-iconbutton--basic
source: components/icon-button
style: components/icon-button/icon-button.style.ts
---

```tsx preview
<IconButton aria-label="Plus" icon={<PlusIcon />} />
```

## Usage

:::code-group

```tsx [package]
import { IconButton } from "@yamada-ui/react"
```

```tsx [alias]
import { IconButton } from "@/components/ui"
```

```tsx [monorepo]
import { IconButton } from "@workspaces/ui"
```

:::

```tsx
<IconButton />
```

### Change Variant

```tsx preview
<Wrap gap="md">
  <For each={["solid", "subtle", "surface", "outline", "ghost"]}>
    {(variant, index) => (
      <IconButton
        key={index}
        variant={variant}
        aria-label="Plus"
        icon={<PlusIcon />}
      />
    )}
  </For>
</Wrap>
```

### Change Size

```tsx preview
<Wrap gap="md" alignItems="flex-start">
  <For each={["xs", "sm", "md", "lg", "xl"]}>
    {(size, index) => (
      <IconButton
        key={index}
        size={size}
        aria-label="Plus"
        icon={<PlusIcon />}
      />
    )}
  </For>
</Wrap>
```

### Change Color Scheme

```tsx preview
<Wrap gap="md">
  <For each={["success", "warning"]}>
    {(colorScheme, index) => (
      <IconButton
        key={index}
        colorScheme={colorScheme}
        aria-label="Plus"
        icon={<PlusIcon />}
      />
    )}
  </For>
</Wrap>
```

### Change Shape

To rounded corners, set `fullRounded` to `true`.

```tsx preview
<Wrap gap="md">
  <IconButton
    variant="solid"
    aria-label="Plus"
    fullRounded
    icon={<PlusIcon />}
  />

  <IconButton
    variant="subtle"
    aria-label="Minus"
    fullRounded
    icon={<MinusIcon />}
  />

  <IconButton
    variant="surface"
    aria-label="Bold"
    fullRounded
    icon={<BoldIcon />}
  />

  <IconButton
    variant="outline"
    aria-label="Light"
    fullRounded
    icon={<SunIcon />}
  />

  <IconButton
    variant="ghost"
    aria-label="Dark"
    fullRounded
    icon={<MoonIcon />}
  />
</Wrap>
```

### Disable

To disable, set `disabled` to `true`.

```tsx preview
<Wrap gap="md">
  <IconButton variant="solid" aria-label="Plus" disabled icon={<PlusIcon />} />

  <IconButton
    variant="subtle"
    aria-label="Minus"
    disabled
    icon={<MinusIcon />}
  />

  <IconButton
    variant="surface"
    aria-label="Bold"
    disabled
    icon={<BoldIcon />}
  />

  <IconButton
    variant="outline"
    aria-label="Light"
    disabled
    icon={<SunIcon />}
  />

  <IconButton variant="ghost" aria-label="Dark" disabled icon={<MoonIcon />} />
</Wrap>
```

## Props

<PropsTable name="button" all pick={["IconButton"]} />

## Accessibility

Currently, this section is being updated due to the migration of v2.

Commit message:

docs(icon-button): update accessibility

www/contents/components/(components)/icon-button.mdx, after:

---
title: IconButton
description: "`IconButton` is a component that displays an icon within a button."
storybook: components-iconbutton--basic
source: components/icon-button
style: components/icon-button/icon-button.style.ts
---

```tsx preview
<IconButton aria-label="Plus" icon={<PlusIcon />} />
```

## Usage

:::code-group

```tsx [package]
import { IconButton } from "@yamada-ui/react"
```

```tsx [alias]
import { IconButton } from "@/components/ui"
```

```tsx [monorepo]
import { IconButton } from "@workspaces/ui"
```

:::

```tsx
<IconButton />
```

### Change Variant

```tsx preview
<Wrap gap="md">
  <For each={["solid", "subtle", "surface", "outline", "ghost"]}>
    {(variant, index) => (
      <IconButton
        key={index}
        variant={variant}
        aria-label="Plus"
        icon={<PlusIcon />}
      />
    )}
  </For>
</Wrap>
```

### Change Size

```tsx preview
<Wrap gap="md" alignItems="flex-start">
  <For each={["xs", "sm", "md", "lg", "xl"]}>
    {(size, index) => (
      <IconButton
        key={index}
        size={size}
        aria-label="Plus"
        icon={<PlusIcon />}
      />
    )}
  </For>
</Wrap>
```

### Change Color Scheme

```tsx preview
<Wrap gap="md">
  <For each={["success", "warning"]}>
    {(colorScheme, index) => (
      <IconButton
        key={index}
        colorScheme={colorScheme}
        aria-label="Plus"
        icon={<PlusIcon />}
      />
    )}
  </For>
</Wrap>
```

### Change Shape

To rounded corners, set `fullRounded` to `true`.

```tsx preview
<Wrap gap="md">
  <IconButton
    variant="solid"
    aria-label="Plus"
    fullRounded
    icon={<PlusIcon />}
  />

  <IconButton
    variant="subtle"
    aria-label="Minus"
    fullRounded
    icon={<MinusIcon />}
  />

  <IconButton
    variant="surface"
    aria-label="Bold"
    fullRounded
    icon={<BoldIcon />}
  />

  <IconButton
    variant="outline"
    aria-label="Light"
    fullRounded
    icon={<SunIcon />}
  />

  <IconButton
    variant="ghost"
    aria-label="Dark"
    fullRounded
    icon={<MoonIcon />}
  />
</Wrap>
```

### Disable

To disable, set `disabled` to `true`.

```tsx preview
<Wrap gap="md">
  <IconButton variant="solid" aria-label="Plus" disabled icon={<PlusIcon />} />

  <IconButton
    variant="subtle"
    aria-label="Minus"
    disabled
    icon={<MinusIcon />}
  />

  <IconButton
    variant="surface"
    aria-label="Bold"
    disabled
    icon={<BoldIcon />}
  />

  <IconButton
    variant="outline"
    aria-label="Light"
    disabled
    icon={<SunIcon />}
  />

  <IconButton variant="ghost" aria-label="Dark" disabled icon={<MoonIcon />} />
</Wrap>
```

## Props

<PropsTable name="button" all pick={["IconButton"]} />

## Accessibility

The `IconButton` follows the [WAI-ARIA - Button Pattern](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/button/) for accessibility.

When `aria-label` is set, it will be read aloud by screen readers.

```tsx
<IconButton aria-label="Plus" icon={<PlusIcon />} />
```

### Keyboard Navigation

| Key              | Description                | State |
| ---------------- | -------------------------- | ----- |
| `Tab`            | Moves focus to the button. | -     |
| `Enter`, `Space` | Activates the button.      | -     |

### ARIA Roles and Attributes

| Component | Roles and Attributes | Usage                                             |
| --------- | -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `Icon`    | `role="img"`         | Indicates that this is an image.                  |
|           | `aria-hidden`        | Excludes the element from the accessibility tree. |
