www/contents/components/(components)/textarea.mdx, before:

---
title: Textarea
description: "`Textarea` is a component used to obtain multi-line text input."
storybook: components-textarea--basic
source: components/textarea
style: components/textarea/textarea.style.ts
---

```tsx preview
<Textarea placeholder="Placeholder" />
```

## Usage

:::code-group

```tsx [package]
import { Textarea } from "@yamada-ui/react"
```

```tsx [alias]
import { Textarea } from "@/components/ui"
```

```tsx [monorepo]
import { Textarea } from "@workspaces/ui"
```

:::

```tsx
<Textarea />
```

### Change Variants

```tsx preview
<VStack>
  <For each={["outline", "filled", "flushed"]}>
    {(variant) => (
      <Textarea
        key={variant}
        variant={variant}
        placeholder={toTitleCase(variant)}
      />
    )}
  </For>
</VStack>
```

### Change Size

```tsx preview
<VStack>
  <For each={["xs", "sm", "md", "lg", "xl"]}>
    {(size) => (
      <Textarea key={size} size={size} placeholder={`Size (${size})`} />
    )}
  </For>
</VStack>
```

### Change Color Scheme

```tsx preview
<VStack>
  <For each={["success", "warning"]}>
    {(colorScheme) => (
      <Textarea
        key={colorScheme}
        colorScheme={colorScheme}
        placeholder={toTitleCase(colorScheme)}
      />
    )}
  </For>
</VStack>
```

### Disable

To disable the input, set `disabled` to `true`.

```tsx preview
<VStack>
  <For each={["outline", "filled", "flushed"]}>
    {(variant) => (
      <Textarea
        key={variant}
        disabled
        variant={variant}
        placeholder={toTitleCase(variant)}
      />
    )}
  </For>
</VStack>
```

### Make Read-Only

To make read-only, set `readOnly` to `true`.

```tsx preview
<VStack>
  <For each={["outline", "filled", "flushed"]}>
    {(variant) => (
      <Textarea
        key={variant}
        variant={variant}
        placeholder={toTitleCase(variant)}
        readOnly
      />
    )}
  </For>
</VStack>
```

### Make Invalid

To make invalid, set `invalid` to `true`.

```tsx preview
<VStack>
  <For each={["outline", "filled", "flushed"]}>
    {(variant) => (
      <Textarea
        key={variant}
        variant={variant}
        placeholder={toTitleCase(variant)}
        invalid
      />
    )}
  </For>
</VStack>
```

### Change Border Color

To change the border color, set a color to `focusBorderColor` or `errorBorderColor`.

```tsx preview
<VStack>
  <Textarea focusBorderColor="green.500" placeholder="Custom border color" />
  <Textarea
    errorBorderColor="orange.500"
    invalid
    placeholder="Custom border color"
  />
</VStack>
```

### Customize Placeholder

To change the placeholder color, set `_placeholder` to the props.

```tsx preview
<Textarea
  placeholder="Custom placeholder"
  _placeholder={{ color: "green.500" }}
/>
```

### Change Resize Behavior

```tsx preview
<VStack>
  <For each={["block", "horizontal", "vertical", "none"]}>
    {(resize) => (
      <Textarea
        key={resize}
        placeholder={toTitleCase(resize)}
        resize={resize}
      />
    )}
  </For>
</VStack>
```

### Use Auto-resize

To enable auto-resizing, set `autosize` to `true`.

```tsx preview
<Textarea autosize placeholder="Autosize" />
```

### Control Resize

```tsx preview functional client
const resizeRef = useRef<() => void>(null)
const onResize = () => {
  resizeRef.current?.()
}

return (
  <VStack>
    <Textarea placeholder="Use resize" resizeRef={resizeRef} />
    <Button alignSelf="flex-end" onClick={onResize}>
      Resize
    </Button>
  </VStack>
)
```

Commit message:

docs(textarea): add instructions for changing resize behavior

www/contents/components/(components)/textarea.mdx, after:

---
title: Textarea
description: "`Textarea` is a component used to obtain multi-line text input."
storybook: components-textarea--basic
source: components/textarea
style: components/textarea/textarea.style.ts
---

```tsx preview
<Textarea placeholder="Placeholder" />
```

## Usage

:::code-group

```tsx [package]
import { Textarea } from "@yamada-ui/react"
```

```tsx [alias]
import { Textarea } from "@/components/ui"
```

```tsx [monorepo]
import { Textarea } from "@workspaces/ui"
```

:::

```tsx
<Textarea />
```

### Change Variants

```tsx preview
<VStack>
  <For each={["outline", "filled", "flushed"]}>
    {(variant) => (
      <Textarea
        key={variant}
        variant={variant}
        placeholder={toTitleCase(variant)}
      />
    )}
  </For>
</VStack>
```

### Change Size

```tsx preview
<VStack>
  <For each={["xs", "sm", "md", "lg", "xl"]}>
    {(size) => (
      <Textarea key={size} size={size} placeholder={`Size (${size})`} />
    )}
  </For>
</VStack>
```

### Change Color Scheme

```tsx preview
<VStack>
  <For each={["success", "warning"]}>
    {(colorScheme) => (
      <Textarea
        key={colorScheme}
        colorScheme={colorScheme}
        placeholder={toTitleCase(colorScheme)}
      />
    )}
  </For>
</VStack>
```

### Disable

To disable the input, set `disabled` to `true`.

```tsx preview
<VStack>
  <For each={["outline", "filled", "flushed"]}>
    {(variant) => (
      <Textarea
        key={variant}
        disabled
        variant={variant}
        placeholder={toTitleCase(variant)}
      />
    )}
  </For>
</VStack>
```

### Make Read-Only

To make read-only, set `readOnly` to `true`.

```tsx preview
<VStack>
  <For each={["outline", "filled", "flushed"]}>
    {(variant) => (
      <Textarea
        key={variant}
        variant={variant}
        placeholder={toTitleCase(variant)}
        readOnly
      />
    )}
  </For>
</VStack>
```

### Make Invalid

To make invalid, set `invalid` to `true`.

```tsx preview
<VStack>
  <For each={["outline", "filled", "flushed"]}>
    {(variant) => (
      <Textarea
        key={variant}
        variant={variant}
        placeholder={toTitleCase(variant)}
        invalid
      />
    )}
  </For>
</VStack>
```

### Change Border Color

To change the border color, set a color to `focusBorderColor` or `errorBorderColor`.

```tsx preview
<VStack>
  <Textarea focusBorderColor="green.500" placeholder="Custom border color" />
  <Textarea
    errorBorderColor="orange.500"
    invalid
    placeholder="Custom border color"
  />
</VStack>
```

### Customize Placeholder

To change the placeholder color, set `_placeholder` to the props.

```tsx preview
<Textarea
  placeholder="Custom placeholder"
  _placeholder={{ color: "green.500" }}
/>
```

### Change Resize Behavior

To change the resize behavior, set `resize` to one of `block`, `horizontal`, `vertical`, or `none`.

```tsx preview
<VStack>
  <For each={["block", "horizontal", "vertical", "none"]}>
    {(resize) => (
      <Textarea
        key={resize}
        placeholder={toTitleCase(resize)}
        resize={resize}
      />
    )}
  </For>
</VStack>
```

### Use Auto-resize

To enable auto-resizing, set `autosize` to `true`.

```tsx preview
<Textarea autosize placeholder="Autosize" />
```

### Control Resize

```tsx preview functional client
const resizeRef = useRef<() => void>(null)
const onResize = () => {
  resizeRef.current?.()
}

return (
  <VStack>
    <Textarea placeholder="Use resize" resizeRef={resizeRef} />
    <Button alignSelf="flex-end" onClick={onResize}>
      Resize
    </Button>
  </VStack>
)
```
